During a
testy meeting with
hostage families Monday,
Israeli Prime Minister
Benjamin Netanyahu
appears to have strained his one
regional relation
ship with Qatar that matters most
to those very families moving.
You don't hear me thinking Qatar,
because Qatar is essentially
no different from the U.N.
or the Red Cross.
And in some ways, even more problematic.
They have leverage
because they're financing them.
These comments caught off mic,
triggered a rapid and barb diplomatic
put down from Qatari officials
who helped negotiate
the release of almost 100
Israeli hostages in November,
saying in a tweet,
We are appalled by the alleged remarks
attributed to the Israeli prime minister.
If validated, are irresponsible
and destructive
to the efforts to save innocent lives,
but are not surprising.
Just days earlier,
Qatar had been talking up
relations with Israel
and the pretense
for Hamas to release more hostages.
We are engaging in serious discussions
with both sides.
We have presented ideas to both sides.
We are getting
a constant stream
of replies from both sides.
Qatar's
frustration now
seems personal, with Netanyahu.
Qatar concluding their criticism
with a view
increasingly suspected by some Israelis.
Netanyahu wants to keep the war going,
saying in a tweet,
The Israeli prime minister
would only be obstructing
and undermining the mediation process.
For reasons that appear to
serve his political career,
hostage, families who were
in the meeting with the prime minister
released a terse statement
appearing to blame
Netanyahu for the leak.
Although he denies it,
the fact that the censorship
was given permission
to publish this audio recording
is serious
and indicates a loss of judgment.
This leaked audio also suggests
he may be trying
to draw the White House
into confrontation.
I was very angry recently
and I didn't hide it from the Americans
that they renewed the contract
on the military base
they have with Qatar.
President Biden has an openly spoken
to the tensions.
But this week, Secretary of State
Antony Blinken criticizing Israel
for taking Gaza and territory
to create a security buffer.
We've been very clear about
maintaining, in effect, the
the territorial integrity.
And to that point,
has Qatar actually decided to possibly
pull out of the mediation talks?
There's absolutely no indication
that they're going to do that. Indeed.
CIA Chief Bill
Burns is on his way to meetings
with his Israeli counterpart,
Egyptian officials.
And, yes, Qatari officials as well.
And that is all about trying
to get those remaining hostages
released Jake.
Nic Robertson in Tel Aviv
for us, thank you so much.